Peruvian Wings W/ Aji Verde

Recipe type: Party/ Appetizer Cuisine: Peruvian

Perp time: 25 min 
Cook time: 40 min 
Total time: 65 min

Serves: 6-8

INGREDIENTS:

Wings:
3Kg Wings (remove tips only)
1tbs Olive Oil (good brand)
1tsp Kosher Salt
OR
1 x SPG or SA Rub (45 min before BBQing) or your go to rub keep in mind with
flavour in the sauce and Aji Verde.

Wing Sauce:
1tbs Olive Oil (good Brand)
1tsp Kosher Salt
4ea Garlic Cloves Minced (not whole bulbs)
1/2ea small shallot fine minced
60ml Soy Sauce (Kikkoman soy sauce)
10ml Orange juice fresh squeezed
60ml Lime Juice Fresh squeezed
3tbs Liquid Honey (natural honey)
2tbs Adobo marinated chipotle peppers Minced (can be found in local supermarket)
1stp Cumin ground
1tsp Smoked paprika (La Chinata smoked paprika sweet)
1tsp Cilantro leaves Fresh minced (Coriander)

Aji Verde Sauce:
16g Cilantro Leaves Fresh (Coriander)
1ea Serrano Pepper, seeded (or mild Chilli if you don’t like heat, or leave out)
1ea Garlic clove small to medium (not a whole bulb)
120g Mayo
82g Sour Cream
1tbs Olive Oil (good brand)
1tsp White Wine Vinegar
1pinch Kosher Salt

DIRECTIONS:
1. Cut the tips of the wings off and set aside/freeze for later use (stock or Demi-glace),
put the rest of the wing into a bowl.

2. Once you have tipped all your wings it’s time to season use your favourite rub or just
Kosher salt, make sure that all wings are seasoned evenly, toss the wings in the bowl
or use a plastic tapware container and shack with the lid on. Do this at least 45 min
before BBQing. (roasting)

3. Pre heat BBQ to 325 °F. (you can go low and slow if you wanted) (can be done in an
oven to).

4. While you are waiting for the BBQ (oven) to get to desired temp take wings out and
leave covered at room temp.

5. Then we are going to make the Aji Verde sauce, put all ingredients in to a blender
and puree. If you don’t have a blender, then Chiffonade the cilantro, fine mince the
garlic and place in a bowl with all other ingredients and mix well until combined and
place in the chiller. (This sauce can be kept for 3 days in the chilled)

6. Now that your BBQ (oven) is at temp, we are going to add the wings to the grilling
great (roasting pan) making sure that the wings are laid out in a single layer. BBQ
(Roast) until lightly browned this should take 30-35 minutes (longer if you are doing
lower temps on the BBQ or oven). Chicken wings should be at 165°F (75°C) internal
temp can be taken to a max temp of 175°F.

7. While your chicken wings are Grilling (roasting) we are going to take the time to
make the wing sauce, get a skillet to medium heat, add the tbsp of oil to the pan,
followed by the garlic and shallot, cook until lightly golden about 2-3 minutes. Then
add all remaining ingredients to the skillet, cook and make sure that you stir often
until the liquid thickens enough to lightly coat the back of a spoon, set aside until
chicken is done. (You can however blend the sauce in a food processor to a fine
sauce consistency if you did want to).

8. Now chicken is done remove from BBQ (oven) and place into a large stainless bowl
ready for glazing. Pouring some of the wing sauce over the wings and toss making
sure that you get a nice even coating on all wings add more sauce if needed to make
them heavily sauced wings user choice.

9. Now transfer the sauced wings to a serving platter or dish of choice and drizzle with
the Aji Verde and Enjoy.

10. Bearder men may have to wash their entire face afterwards.

Author Thomas Winkler