Pork Chicharron

Recipe type: Snack Cuisine: Spain / Mexico

Perp time: 10 min 
Cook time: 50 min 
Total time: 60 min 
Oven Dry: 5 Hrs

Serves: 8

Ingredients:
4 pounds (1.8KG) Pork Back fat and skin (usually comes as one)
2 cups (473ml) Vinegar
1 cup (236ml) Water
2 ea head garlic, peeled &amp; Crushed
2 tbsp Kosher salt
2 tsp Peppercorns
2 L Canola oil

Instructions:
1. Using a very sharp knife, cut pork skin and fat into long strips, about 2 inches wide. Insert the
knife carefully between the skin &amp; fat on one end of the strip &amp; remove a portion of the fat
as close to the skin as you can without cutting the skin (if you end up with a thin layer of fat
still on the skin that is fine).

2. In a deep pot combine pork skin, water, vinegar, garlic, peppercorn &amp; salt over medium
heat, bring to a boil &amp; skim of the scum that floats on top.

3. Lower heat &amp; cover, continue to cook for about 35 to 45 min or until tender but not falling
apart.

4. Drain well &amp; discarding the left-over liquid and aromatics. Refrigerate for 30 min until
completely cooled.

5. Preheat oven to 250°F (120°C)

6. Cut your strips in to 1 inch’s squares &amp; place on a wire rack set over baking paper.

7. Bake in oven for 3-4 hours or until skin is completely dried out. Then remove from oven.

8. In a thick-bottomed pot place all the fat trimmings and render out the fat on a medium to
low heat will take about 2 hours, remove liquefied fat through a sieve or a coffee filter to
remove all remining solids, reserve solids and use as a garnish on a salad or just eat them
they taste like bacon YUM.

9. Heat our small deep fryer to 355°F (180°C), drop your fryer basket into the oil &amp; gently and
slowly add your dried pork squares in batches not too many at a time, deep-fry for 2-4 min
or until puffed up and begin to float. Using your slotted Stainless-steel spoon and start to
remove the chicharron that start to float &amp; place them on a wire rack with paper towel
underneath the rack, season with salt immediately &amp; repeat until all done or desired amount
of chicharron have been made.

10. Open a beer or drink of your choice and enjoy the Chicharron by your self or with friends &amp;
family choice is yours.

Author: Thomas Winkler.