The Four Saucemen Jalapeno &amp; Sweet Orange Rub Panko Crumbed Scallops

Recipe type: Main Cuisine: European

Perp time: 20 min 
Cook time: 5-8 min 
Total time: 25-30 min

Serves: 4

Ingredients:
1kg sea Scallops
3-4ea Eggs
200g Panko bread crumb
250g Plain flour
3tbsp The Four Saucemen jalapeno &amp; sweet orange rub
2L Vegetable oil to shallow fry

Optional add on:
45g Fine grated Parmesan cheese (Fresh)
28g Fine grated Ramano Cheese (Fresh)
Lemon Wedges (for serving)

Direction:

Wash scallops in cold water, and trim off the muscle on the main body leaving the roe, then drain the scallops on a paper
towel. Pat dry.

Set up you pene station:
- Beat your eggs in a bowl
- Place out bread crumb in a separate bowl
- Place your flour in a separate bowl

Add jalapeno & sweet orange rub to your Panko crumbs and stir mix well

Then get your scallops and place a few at a time in the flour then shake of the flour well and place the floured scallop in the
egg mix making sure that the scallops are coated well with egg slurry, then lift out your scallops let excess egg slurry drip
off and then place your scallops into the seasoned Panko crumbs and coat well giving a light push to ensure that the
crumbs adhere well to the scallop, then remove your scallops and place them on a tray that has a few panko crumbs on the
base of it so that the scallops won’t stick to the tray. Keep doing this until you have used all you scallop.

Once your tray is full place the entire tray into the Fridge for 20-30 min and let the panko set.

Whiles this is happening get you pan ready for your shallow fry or have our deep fryer warming to 356°F (180°C).

After 20 min take out your scallops from the fridge and start placing a 5-6ea scallops in your oil, fry for about 2-3 min or
until golden brown.

DO NOT OVER FILL your pan or deep fryer with scallops or it will drop the temp of your oil too much and result in a nasty
finish and over cooked scallop.

Place your cooked scallops into a colander lined with paper towel and a plate underneath to catch and oil run off.

Serve with your favourite condiment (tartare sauce, cocktail sauce) and lemon wedges.

Author Thomas Winkler